"German Climate Activists Throw Mashed Potatoes At $110 Million Monet Painting", a headline for a recent post published on Forbes, talk about the effort of two climate activist who wants to draw attention of the public about the current climate situation. The article did not mention what consequences or penalty those two activist has to bear but we can easily think that the penalty would not be trivial. So what really drive the activists to commit such behavior? Climate change, as its name implied, the change of something huge, the climate. It's not something that one or every of us could easily contribute to or change it. But it's also not what for one or every of us not looking into it. The long term average of weather, known as climate, has been changing for about 4.5 billion years. It's something that we, or any living species are living in. It can change not only from year-to-year, but also hour-to-hour. There are many scientific evidence that the climate we are living is becoming extreme, also changing in a faster pace than ever before in the earth's history. Why are climate change bad for the humanity? We, human, have build our infrastructure fitting different climatic characteristics. when these climate characteristics in a particular are change, the infrastructure there has to change for them to stay useful. Places that built where expecting lots of rainfall will have little water collecting resources, so climate that decrease the amount of rain will have the bad consequences on the water supply. Places built around the little expected rainfall would now find themselves literally in deep water if now the rain level increases. Also the universal problem that the entire world also facing that there is the high change every one of us has heard once also called global warming. This would increase the level of the sea due to ice melt in the two pole and cause the earth to has less place for human to leave. Among the reason for these problem, the biggest factors are human's industrilization and population growth.

Climate change has certainly been having considerable environmental, economic and social impacts. Therefore, for the benefits of our future generation, it would be crucial and urgent for the public to know there is now a giant threat that is called the climate change. And that everyone of us should take the action to prevent it. There has been a framework for the mission, raised by United Nations, called Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) or Global Goals. It is the universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that people in the future could enjoy peace and prosperity. The goals 13th among these goals are call Climate action. It suggest us to take urgent action to combat climate change and its impact. I was born in Vietnam. Back to the day when i was younger, the climate was different from it is in today: The weather was less extreme. Everyday's temperature today would consider hotter a lot consider to the past. There is an article from World Bank Organization mentioned that Vietnam has lost $10 billion in 2020, or 3.2 percent of GDP, due to climate change impacts. Not only that, without proper adaptation and mitigation measures, it would estimated climate change will cost Vietnam about 12 percent to 14.5 percent of GDP a year by 2050 and could plunge up to one million people into extreme poverty by 2030. The climate change risks will become higher and higher as right now my country is setting an ambitious goal as it will reach high income status in the near future, this would require higher level of industrilization or urbanization. To combat the issues, I look at it root and therefore propose that people should rely less on fossil fuel, as when they release large amounts of carbon dioxide,a green house gas, when burned. Greenhouse gases trap heat in our atmosphere therefore cause global warming or climate change. Anyone of us can help the humanity to achieve this goal by just doing one simple thing: turn off electronic device when not in use. Also, we should look into green energy as the alternative for fossil fuel as they have prove they will create better and more sustainable for the future generation.
