# graduation requirement 
- 2.Upon approval of the program director, students may choose any English-taught courses or second foreign language courses for up to 14 credits to fulfill program completion requirements. Students who need to make up Physical Education credits may take Physical Education courses taught in Chinese.
- 3.Additional course credits in general education or teacher education program cannot be counted in the total number of credits required for obtaining a Bachelor’s degree. Students earned more than 12 credits of college core electives, the amount could be count as free electives credits.
- 4.Credits in free electives outside this course curriculum may be counted toward students total credits required for graduation; however, the approval from program chair is required.
* 5.Students have to take **at least 12 core elective credits** before graduation; it should include **at least one subject from “Social Sciences”, one subject from “Mathematics & Sciences”, one subject from “Humanity & Arts”, one subject from “Cross Field General Education Category”**.
- 6.Professional required and elective credits of each program can not be counted as IC core elective credits.
- 7.All students need to take a placement test every year. Students who pass the CEFR B1 level of placement test can apply for waiving Academic English Listening and Speaking 1, Academic English Vocabularies and Reading 1, and Academic English Grammar and Composition 1. Students who fulfill following conditions still need to take placement test and applying waiving Academic English Listening and Speaking 1, Academic English Vocabulary and Reading 1, and Academic English Grammar and Composition 1 after they pass the CEFR B1 level of placement test: document indicating English as the language of instruction in the previous level of education, or English as the first language, or English as the official language.
- 8.All students need to take a placement test every year. Students who pass the CEFR B2 level of placement test can apply for waiving Academic English Listening and Speaking 2, Academic English Vocabulary and Reading 2, and Academic English Grammar and Composition 2. They can change to take following courses: Advanced Academic English, Advanced Academic English Practicum, and Advanced Academic English Integrated Training. On the other hand, students who fulfill following conditions still need to take placement test and they can change to take three Advanced English courses after they pass the CEFR B2 level of placement test: document indicating English as the language of instruction in the previous level of education, or English as the first language, or English as the official language.
- 9. International freshmen or first-year students who can provide proof of achieving higher Chinese proficiency level (TOCFL Band B above 60) in two weeks of school begin, can apply to waive “Basic Mandarin Conversation I” and “Basic Mandarin Conversation II” and take “Intermediate Mandarin Conversation I” and “Intermediate Mandarin Conversation Ⅱ”; However, the approval from program chair is required.
- 10. Before graduation from Ming Chuan University, students who hold Form-5 high school diploma are required to take at least a total of credits of elective courses using English as the language of instruction.
- **11. In accordance with MCU General Provisions for Study, all undergraduate students must pass the requirements for Service-Learning, English Proficiency, Information Technology Proficiency, Chinese Proficiency, Sports Ability, and Basic Professional Skills in order to graduate.**
- 12. This course outline applies to students entering in Fall 2019. Elective courses on this course curriculum may be counted toward total graduation credits by students who entered the university prior to Fall 2019
